Digital Services Facilitation through Aggregation Services.  
Introduction:

Over the last few decades, Information, Communication and Technology has taken on a significant role for business activities responsible for driving growth. In most cases, it has become a key enabler for competitiveness, better quality of service, lower processing costs or even better support for MIS. In some cases, making the right choices and investing in the right digital technologies is the key to success.

In order to facilitate MSMEs in terms of Technology adoption and achieve higher business efficiencies, business automation and compliances, NSIC operates as an aggregator and facilitator of ICT Enabled Digital Services to MSMEs on transparent and affordable prices by way of on-boarding various service providers offering different products/ services that are required by MSMEs for adopting the digital ways of managing their businesses.

Objective:

Facilitate MSME’s in terms of ICT adoption by way of providing digital services from leading service providers..
To make MSMEs digitally empowered with a view to improve their competitiveness in national and international markets, by increasing their efficiencies by way of automation, cost reduction, capacity enhancements & Compliances etc.
Benefit to MSMEs:

MSMEs will be getting their digital requirements served through NSIC without any hassle of searching for reliable service providers & can be saved from exploitation in the market. Also, MSMEs will be getting special offer through the aggregation of bulk requirements on the services of identified categories & eliminating dealers and distributors.

Sub-Categories of ICT Enabled Digital Services and Scope for Service Providers:

Software Services (Such as ERP, Accounting, Manufacturing Design, Regulatory Compliance including GST, other software packages etc
Cloud Services [Platform as a Service (PaaS), Software as a Service (SaaS)]
Digital Infrastructure (IaaS, Hardware, Smart devices]
Artificial Intelligence Solutions
Internet of Things (IoT) and Machine to Machine (M2M) solutions
B2B and B2C E-Commerce Solutions
Other ICT Enabled Digital Services
Services providers in these sub-categories can apply online for empanelment with NSIC at NSIC MSME Aggregation Service. A commercial MOU would be signed with each service provider on a non-exclusive basis. All such service providers, including MSMEs, may be on-boarded who have the potential to serve the MSME units and their products and services are relevant for MSMEs. To begin with only those service providers would be empanelled whose products/services are available on “off-the-shelf” basis and can be availed by the MSMEs on a “plug-n-play” model. NSIC will charge 6% service charge for the role of aggregator.

List of Empanelled Service Providers:

Name of Service Provider	Sub-Category	Product & Price List
M/s Dun & Bradstreet Information Service India Pvt. Ltd.	Sales & Marketing Solutions	DUNS Registered Solutions, D&B iAccess, D&B Hoovers , D&B Credit
How MSMEs can avail the Services?

The MSMEs can apply either online on MSMEmart portal (https://msmemart.com/DigitalServices) or offline at the branch offices / NTSCs for products/services offered by NSIC by way of filling a Customer Application Form (CAF) and making full payment of products/services chosen by them after referring to the Product-and-Price (P&P) List of empanelled service providers.
The payment may be accepted in any electronic form such as BHIM UPI, RTGS, IPMS, etc. or by way of pay order, demand draft etc.
NSIC, through its filed offices, would arrange for fulfilment of the requirement of MSMEs, as filled in the CAF, through the concerned Service Provider. Payment to such Service Providers would be released by NSIC field offices after receipt of proof of such fulfilment.
Description	Action
Customer Application Form (20.01.23)	
Updated : 06.05.2024

Credit Facilitation Through Bank
To meet the credit requirements of MSME units, NSIC has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with various Nationalized and Private Sector Banks. Through syndication with banks, NSIC facilitates credit support to MSMEs (fund based or non-fund based limits) from these banks. Any MSME Unit can approach directly to any of our nearest branch office and submit their request application for loan requirement from any of these banks under our tie up agreement. The NSIC official sitting at the branch will provide hand holding support to the MSME unit by assisting them in completion of all documents as required by the bank for further submission of the credit proposal to the bank.

NSIC also does the follow up with these banks. This handholding support is provided by NSIC without any cost to the MSMEs
Salient features of Bank Credit Facilitation Scheme

Facilitates credit to MSMEs by having an integrated mix of various public and private sector banks.
Provides an option for MSMEs to apply for a new bank or switch over of an account to a different bank as given under tie up arrangements.
Helps the MSMEs in completing documentation as required by the bank and after submitting it to the bank NSIC officer does the follow up with the bank.
To facilitate larger number of MSMEs who are desirous of availing credit.
To provide handholding support to MSMEs without any cost to MSMEs.
To download loan application forms from the banks under BANK CREDIT FACILITATION SCHEME the website address of the banks are given:-

Name of the Bank	Website
Yes Bank	www.yesbank.in
IndusInd Bank Ltd.	www.indusind.com
Federal Bank.	http://www.federalbank.co.in
Kotak Mahindra Bank	www.kotak.com
ICICI Bank	https://www.icicibank.com
AU Small Finance Bank	https://www.aubank.in
Bank of Maharashtra	www.bankofmaharashtra.in
Bank of Baroda	www.bankofbaroda.in
Axis Bank	www.axisbank.com
State bank of India	http://www.sbi.co.in
Central bank of India	www.centralbankofindia.co.in
Canara Bank	www.canarabank.in
Union Bank of India	https://www.unionbankofindia.co.in
HDFC	https://www.hdfcbank.com/
Karnataka Bank	https://karnatakabank.com
Utkarsh Small Finance Bank	https://www.utkarsh.bank/
Punjab National Bank	https://www.pnbindia.in/
IDBI Bank	https://www.idbibank.in/

RMA against Bank Guarantee
Raw Material Assistance Scheme aims at helping MSMEs by way of financing the purchase of Raw Material (Both indigenous & imported). This gives an opportunity to MSMEs to focus better on manufacturing quality products.


Benefits of the Scheme

Facilitating procurement of Raw Material with credit support up to 180 days
MSMEs helped to avail Economics of Purchases like bulk purchase, cash discount etc.
How to Apply

The Entrepreneurs are required to apply for Raw Material Assistance only on the prescribed application forms. The application forms downloaded from the link given below may be filled and can be submitted to the nearest Branch Office. The blank forms are also available free of charge from the Branch offices.

The Process

Duly filled application form is to be submitted along with the Application
Preliminary appraisal and Unit inspection is carried out by NSIC.
Sanction of Limit to the Unit.
Signing of agreement between NSIC and Unit.
Disbursement of assistance to the unit.
Terms and Conditions

Security in the form of Bank Guarantee from Approved Banks.
The rate of interest would be as under:
Assistance against the security of BG :

Rate of interest in respect of assistance availed on or after 01.12.2023


Particulars	Effective Rate of Interest(% per Annum)
Normal Interest (Compounded on monthly rest)	MICRO	SMALL & MEDIUM
Upto 180 Days
(i) Units having valid SME 1 rating*	9.00	9.75
(ii) Units having valid SME 2 rating*	9.50	10.25
(iii) Other units	10.00	10.75

*Note : The concessional rate of interest for the good rated MSMEs, as mentioned at Sl. No. (i) and (ii) in the table above shall be applicable only to those cases, where the units make timely repayments of the Corporation’s dues. The units which have not re-paid its dues within the stipulated 180 days, shall not be eligible for the concessional rate of interest. Such units shall be charged rate of interest mentioned at Sl. No. (iii) above.

Additional rate of interest on delayed payment (beyond 180 days), over and above the normal rate of interest, would be as under:

In case any outstanding is more than 180 days	1.25% per quarter

Processing Fee :

Processing Fee	MICRO	SMALL AND MEDIUM
On new sanctions	1.0% p.a.	1.0% p.a.
On Renewal	0.5% p.a.	1.0% p.a.

Benefits of Single Point Registration Scheme
The units registered under Single Point Registration Scheme of NSIC are eligible to get the benefits under Public Procurement Policy for Micro & Small Enterprises (MSEs) Order 2012 as notified by the Government of India, Ministry of Micro Small & Medium Enterprises, New Delhi vide Gazette Notification dated 23.03.2012 and amendment vide order no. S.O. 5670(E) dated 9th November 2018.

Free of Cost Tender Info
Issue of the Tender Sets free of cost.In addition to the above, 358 items are also reserved for exclusive purchase from SSI Sector

Exemption from EMD
Exemption from payment of Earnest Money Deposit (EMD)

Advantage In Tender Participation
In tender participating MSEs quoting price within price band of L1+15 per cent shall also be allowed to supply a portion upto 25% of requirement by bringing down their price to L1 Price where L1 is non MSEs.

Procurement from MSEs
Every Central Ministries/Departments/PSUs shall set an annual goal of minimum 25 per cent of the total annual purchases of the products or services produced or rendered by MSEs. Out of annual requirement of 25% procurement from MSEs, 4% is earmarked for units owned by Schedule Caste /Schedule Tribes and 3% is earmarked for the units owned by Women entrepreneurs.

Apply here : https://www.nsicspronline.com/appAdministrator/NewUnitRegistrationIntro.aspx 
Renew here: https://www.nsicspronline.com/appAdministrator/RenewalOnlineIntro.aspx
Verification status can be checked here : https://www.nsicspronline.com/Final_Verify.aspx

NSIC Technical Services Centre Okhla, New Delhi
       
image
NSIC Technical Services Centre, Okhla, New Delhi is one of the Technical Services Centre of National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC), an ISO 9001:2015 certified Government of India Enterprise. The Technical Services Centre in Okhla, New Delhi is serving MSME units by providing skilled & professional workforce through its training programmes on demand driven, industry oriented courses in the fields like Mechanical Workshop, Information Technology, CAD/CAM & CNC, Multimedia & Animation, Electrical & Electronics, Entrepreneurship Development. The curriculum of each training programme is defined in such a way so as to give maximum practical exposure through practical training to the trainees. In last five years more than 50,000 trainees are trained by the Centre and successfully placed in companies like Munjal Showa, Motherson Sumi, Mitsubishi Electric Co., HCL Infosys Ltd., Timex, Siemens, Maxop Engineering, New Allenberry Works, and many more, through campus placement.

The Centre also facilitates industries by providing Common Facility Services for Material Testing & Specialized Job work on Machines.

Go here for online addmissions: https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfPWSv72VAiB_67xtoTljEmQPdP0udT1lwqRGTKNmrMKQvBnA/viewform