About the Scheme
The Scheme for setting up of Display Fabs in India provides fiscal support of 50% of the project cost on a pari-passu basis to the approved applicants.
Electronics permeates all sectors of the economy and the electronics industry has cross-cutting economic and strategic importance. Currently valued at around USD 2 Trillion (₹150 lakh crore), the global electronics market is expected to grow significantly given the increasing penetration of emerging technologies including 5G, IoT, Artificial Intelligence, Robotics, Smart Mobility, Smart Manufacturing, etc.
The vision of National Policy on Electronics 2019 (NPE 2019) is to position India as a global hub for Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) and create an enabling environment for the industry to compete globally. One of the main strategies of NPE 2019 is to facilitate setting up of display fabrication facilities.
Expenditure Finance Committee shall determine the structure and quantum of fiscal support to be provided under the scheme in consultation with Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and the Nodal Agency.
In case of fiscal support being provided as equity either in part or in full, Government of India’s share will not exceed 49% of total project equity.
Additional financial support, if any, offered by the State Government or any of its agencies or local bodies may also be availed.
Objective
To attract large investments for setting up semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities in the country to strengthen the electronics manufacturing ecosystem and help establish a trusted value chain.
Eligibility
Companies / Consortia / Joint Ventures proposing to set up a Silicon CMOS based Semiconductor Fabs in India for manufacturing Logic / Memory / Digital ICs / Analog ICs / Mixed Signal ICs / SoCs
Tenure of the Scheme
Support under the scheme shall be provided for a period of six years. The tenure of the actual fiscal support outflow may be extended based on the approval of the Minister of Electronics and Information Technology.
Procedure to Apply

1.Registration
Submission of relevant information to register with ISM and submit application

2.Proposal
Detailed Project Report

3.Payment of Fee
Application fee as per Scheme and Guidelines.

*Fee shall be inclusive of GST however the transaction charges are to be borne by the Applicant independently

4.Fiscal Support
The tenure of the fiscal support shall be for a period of 6 years