Introduction
Modified Electronics Manufacturing Clusters (EMC 2.0) Scheme has been launched to address the disabilities faced by industries for quality infrastructure, by providing support for creation of world class infrastructure along with common facilities and amenities, including Ready Built Factory (RBF) sheds / Plug and Play facilities for attracting major global electronics manufacturers along with their supply chain to set up units in the country. This Scheme will fortify the linkage between domestic and international market by strengthening supply chain responsiveness, consolidation of suppliers, decreased time-to-market, lower logistics costs, etc.

Scheme Details
1
Details

“To offset the disabilities faced by industries for quality infrastructure and to develop a robust electronics manufacturing ecosystem in the country to make India an Electronics Manufacturing Hub; Modified Electronics Manufacturing Clusters (EMC 2.0) Scheme has been notified vide Gazette Notification No.CG-DL-E-01042020-218991 dated April 01, 2020 with the objective to address the disabilities, by providing support for creation of world class infrastructure along with common facilities and amenities, including Ready Built Factory (RBF) sheds / Plug and Play facilities for attracting major global electronics manufacturers along with their supply chain to set up units in the country.

This Scheme will fortify the linkage between domestic and international market by strengthening supply chain responsiveness, consolidation of suppliers, decreased time-to-market, lower logistics costs, etc.

The EMC 2.0 Scheme provides financial assistance for setting up of both EMC projects and Common Facility Centres (CFCs) across the country. The Scheme is open for receipt of application up to 31st March, 2024 (after extension). Further, disbursement of funds is available up to March, 2028, to the approved projects.

An application shall be made by Project Implementing Agency (PIA) which can be State Government or State Implementing Agency (SIA) or Central Public Sector Unit (CPSU) or State Public Sector Unit (SPSU) or Industrial Corridor Development Corporation (ICDC) such as DMICDC etc.2
Financial Assistance

The EMC 2.0 Scheme provides financial assistance for setting up of both EMC projects and Common Facility Centres (CFCs) across the country. The Scheme is open for receipt of application up to 31st March, 2024 (after extension). Further, disbursement of funds is available up to March, 2028, to the approved projects. and joint ventures(JVs) of  such agencies with Anchor units/Industrial Park Developers.

All the applications received under the EMC 2.0 Scheme through Project Management Agency (PMA) will be considered by Project Review Committee (PRC) for giving its recommendations to the PMA for according approval/ rejection of the projects.”

