Introduction
The Scheme for Promotion of Manufacturing of Electronic Components and Semiconductors (SPECS) aims to offset the disability for domestic manufacturing of electronic components and semiconductors in order to strengthen the electronics manufacturing ecosystem in the country.

Eligibility
Applicable to Investments in New Units as well as Expansion of Existing Units

Development of supply chain is essential for the manufacturing of electronic products with higher domestic value addition. The vision of National Policy on Electronics 2019 (NPE 2019) is to position India as a global hub for Electronics System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM) by encouraging and driving capabilities in the country for developing core components, including chipsets, and creating an enabling environment for the industry to compete globally.

Electronic components are the basic building blocks for Electronics Industry and entail maximum value addition. Therefore, a vibrant electronic components manufacturing ecosystem is vital for the overall long-term and sustainable growth of electronics manufacturing in India and essential to achieve net positive Balance of Payments (BoP).

The Scheme for Promotion of Manufacturing of Electronic Components and Semiconductors (SPECS) notified vide Gazette Notification No.CG-DL-E-01042020-218992 dated April 01, 2020 will help offset the disability for domestic manufacturing of electronic components and semiconductors in order to strengthen the electronics manufacturing ecosystem in the country.

The scheme will provide financial incentive of 25% on capital expenditure for the identified list of electronic goods that comprise downstream value chain of electronic products, i.e., electronic components, semiconductor/ display fabrication units, ATMP units, specialized sub-assemblies and capital goods for manufacture of aforesaid goods, all of which involve high value added manufacturing.

The Scheme will be applicable to investments in new units and expansion of capacity/ modernization and diversification of existing units.  Application under the Scheme can be made by any entity registered in India.

The capital expenditure will be total of expenditure in plant, machinery, equipment, associated utilities and technology, including for Research & Development (R&D).

The Scheme is open for applications initially for 3 years from the date of its notification. Incentives under the Scheme will be applicable from the date of acknowledgment of the application. The incentives will be available for investment made within 5 years from the date of acknowledgement of application.

The Scheme will be implemented through a nodal agency which will act as Project Management Agency (PMA) and be responsible for providing secretarial, managerial and implementation support and carrying out other responsibilities as assigned by MeitY from time to time.

2
Financial Incentive

The scheme provides financial incentive of 25% on capital expenditure for the identified list of electronic goods that comprise downstream value chain of electronic products, i.e., electronic components, semiconductor/ display fabrication units, ATMP units, specialized sub-assemblies and capital goods for manufacture of aforesaid goods, all of which involve high value-added manufacturing.

3
Scheme Timeline

The Scheme is open for applications initially for 3 years from the date of its notification.

Contacts

specs@ifciltd.com
ashish.mishra89@meity.gov.in
nirmod.kumar@meity.gov.in

